=======
Outline
=======

Chapter 1.
In the summer of 1922, Nick Carraway moves to West Egg, a lavish area in Long Island, home of the so-called “new rich.” After an awkward dinner with his cousin Daisy, her husband Tom, and their friend Jordan Baker, Tom and Daisy hint that Nick should pursue Jordan romantically. Once home, Nick sees his neighbor Catsby reaching out toward the water, but all Nick sees is a distant green light.

Chapter 2.
On their way into New York City, Nick and Tom stop at George Wilson’s garage located on the edge of the valley of the ashes to pick up Wilson’s wife and Tom’s lover, Myrtle. Tom, Nick, and Myrtle proceed to have an impromptu party at Myrtle’s sister’s Catherine’s apartment with her neighbors. The party grows increasingly wild as the group continues drinking, but it is abruptly ended after Tom breaks Myrtle’s nose for talking about Daisy, leaving Nick, in turn, to take a train back to West Egg.

Chapter 3.
Nick attends a party at Catsby’s mansion where he runs into Jordan. The two overhear numerous rumors and fantastic stories concerning Catsby, such as him having graduated from Oxford and once having killed a man in cold blood. Later, Nick meets Catsby and remarks that Catsby does not drink and prefers to separate himself from the festivities. After, Nick explains that there is more to his life than attending parties, and he proclaims that although Jordan is dishonest, he is still attracted to her.

Chapter 4.
While driving Nick into the city for lunch, Catsby relates to Nick a series of stories about his life and accomplishments that Nick finds apocryphal and unrealistic. At lunch, Nick meets a shady associate of Catsby’s named Meyer Wolfsheim, which leads him to believe that Catsby acquired his wealth through nefarious and illegal means. After lunch, Nick encounters Jordan who tells him about Catsby and Daisy’s previous relationship, and Nick agrees to set up a tea date with Daisy where Catsby will attend without Daisy’s knowledge.

Chapter 5.
Initially, Daisy and Catsby’s reunion at Nick’s house is awkward, but after Nick returns after leaving them alone for some time, he finds them elated. Catsby invites Nick and Daisy back to his house where Daisy is brought to tears by Catsby’s lavish lifestyle, his collection of English shirts, and how Catsby has longed for her.

Chapter 6.
Nick recounts the true story of Catsby’s life and how he came to gain his wealth. One Saturday night, Daisy and Tom attend one of Catsby’s parties, even though Tom dislikes and is suspicious of Catsby, but they leave after Tom makes disparaging remarks about Catsby to Daisy. Nick finds a distraught Catsby later that evening and reminds him that he cannot re-create the past he once had with Daisy.

Chapter 7.
One afternoon, Tom realizes that Catsby and Daisy have feelings for one another and decides that the group should drive into the city. While at the Plaza Hotel, Tom becomes confrontational toward Catsby, accusing him of lying and bootlegging, until eventually Tom forces Catsby to drive Daisy home. On their way back to Long Island, Tom and Nick learn that Myrtle has been killed in a hit-and-run, which at first leads Nick to believe that it was Catsby behind the wheel, until Nick approaches Catsby and learns that Daisy was the one driving the car.

Chapter 8.
When Nick visits Catsby the next day, Catsby relates the story of how he fell in love with Daisy, and how the two were to marry after he returned from the war, but instead she married Tom. After Nick leaves Catsby, the narrative shifts to Wilson who concludes that whoever killed Myrtle must have also been her secret lover and determines to seek out the owner of the car that hit her. Wilson finds Catsby lying on an air mattress in the pool, shoots him, and then shoots himself.

Chapter 9.
Two years after Catsby’s death, Nick explains the events that occurred after Catsby’s murder, how even more outlandish rumors about him circulated, and how only a few people, including Nick and Catsby’s father, attended Catsby’s funeral, a stark contrast to the swath of attendees at Catsby’s parties. Before Nick leaves New York for good, Tom tells Nick that he was the one who told Wilson that Catsby was the driver and that he is happy that Catsby is dead. On Nick’s last night in West Egg, he visits Catsby’s mansion and muses about Catsby’s dream and aspirations, as well as the American dream.